EP3818778

H04W36/0079; H04W4/14; H04W68/005; H04W68/02; H04W76/18; H04W76/19; H04W76/27; H04W24/08; H04W72/23; H04W76/11; H04W80/02; H04W72/042

1. A method of a user equipment, UE (601), in a wireless communication system, the method comprising:
identifying whether the UE is in a camped on any cell state or a camped normally state;
monitoring a short message in case that the UE is in the camped on any cell state or the camped normally state; and
monitoring a paging message in case that the UE is in the camped normally state,
wherein the short message is received via downlink control information, DCI, with or without the paging message using a short message field.

2. The method of claim 1, wherein the camped on any cell state is only applicable for RRC_IDLE state.

3. The method of claim 1, wherein the camped normally state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC INACTIVE state.

4. The method of claim 1, wherein the short message is received on a physical downlink control channel, PDCCH, using paging radio network temporary identifier, P-RNTI.

5. A method of a base station (602) in a wireless communication system, the method comprising:
identifying whether to transmit a short message and scheduling information for a paging message;
transmitting, to a user equipment, UE (601), the short message on a physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) using paging radio network temporary identifier, P-RNTI, based on the identification; and
transmitting, to the UE, the paging message based on the scheduling information in case that the scheduling information is identified to transmit,
wherein the short message is transmitted via downlink control information, DCI, with or without the paging message using a short message field.

6. The method of claim 5, wherein the short message is monitored by the UE in a camped on any cell state, and
wherein the short message and the paging message are monitored by the UE in a camped normally state.

7. The method of claim 6, wherein the camped on any cell state is only applicable for RRC_IDLE state.

8. The method of claim 6,
wherein the camped normally state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE state.

9. A user equipment, UE (601), in a wireless communication system, the UE comprising:
a transceiver; and
a controller configured to:
identify whether the UE is in a camped on any cell state or a camped normally state,
monitor a short message in case that the UE is in the camped on any cell state or the camped normally state, and
monitor a paging message in case that the UE is in the camped normally state,
wherein the short message is received via downlink control information, DCI, with or without the paging message using a short message field.

10. The UE of claim 9, wherein the camped on any cell state is only applicable for RRC IDLE state.

11. The UE of claim 9, wherein the camped normally state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC INACTIVE state.

12. The UE of claim 9, wherein the short message is received on a physical downlink control channel, PDCCH, using paging radio network temporary identifier, P-RNTI.

13. A base station (602) in a wireless communication system, the base station comprising:
a transceiver; and
a controller configured to:
identify whether to transmit a short message and scheduling information for a paging message,
transmit, to a user equipment, UE (601), via the transceiver, the short message on a physical downlink control channel, PDCCH, using paging radio network temporary identifier, P-RNTI, based on the identification, and
transmit, to the UE via the transceiver, the paging message based on the scheduling information in case that the scheduling information is identified to transmit,
wherein the short message is transmitted via downlink control information, DCI, with or without the paging message using a short message field.

14. The base station of claim 13, wherein the short message is monitored by the UE in a camped on any cell state, and
wherein the short message and the paging message are monitored by the UE in a camped normally state.

15. The base station of claim 13, wherein the camped on any cell state is only applicable for RRC_IDLE state, and wherein the camped normally state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC INACTIVE state. 